#summary upcoming release 0.3.8 notes

=Google Chrome Developer Tools for Java. Upcoming Release 0.3.8.=

This release succeeds the [Release_0_3_6 release 0.3.6].

==Overview==
This release is a minor one. I makes a change to Debugger UI and also it fixes issues [http://code.google.com/p/chromedevtools/issues/detail?id=74 74]
and 
[http://code.google.com/p/chromedevtools/issues/detail?id=76 76].

== Break on Exception ==
The debugger feature that instructs !JavaScript VM to pause on exception throwing event has got a new form. Previously it was controlled from the context menu on LaunchElement. Since this release a more traditional Eclipse approach is implemented.

To enable breaking on exception, user should add a _JS Exception_ breakpoint: {{{Run|Add V8/Chrome JavaScript Exception Breakpoint}}} menu item. This breakpoint has a regular enable/disable semantics, additionally overridden by {{{Skip All Breakpoints}}} control and what's the most useful, its state is persisted by the workspace. This means that once you enabled break on exception, this will remain for the next debug sessions.

Note that while UI allows you to create many such breakpoints, you would hardly need more than one.

== Slight Changes to Launch Configuration ==
You might notice that {{{Breakpoint sync on launch}}} control disappeared from the launch configuration dialog. This is because such synchronization only makes sense for V8 Standalone configurations (where the control is left untouched).

==WIP Backends==
[WIP] backends haven't been changed in this release.

==== Backend Set Version 0.1.10 ====
|| id || Chrome version || New features ||
|| Protocol 1.0 || 18.`*`.`*`.`*` || ||
|| WK@118685 || 21.0.1180.`*` || function scope, primitive value ||
|| WK@120709 ||22.0.1188.`*` || function scope, primitive value, restart frame ||

==System Requirements==
|| *Eclipse configuration:*  ||Eclipse Platform or any richer configuration (e.g. Eclipse Java IDE). ||
|| *Eclipse version:* ||  Eclipse 3.5 minimum, Eclipse 3.6 and 4.2 is also tested. ||
|| *Java:* || J2SE-1.6 or newer. ||

Optional:
|| *JSDT version:*<br>(feature _!JavaScript Development Tools_) || 1.2.0 or newer<br>(corresponds to Eclipse 3.6).||